Agile:
Agile Manifesto was published in 2001.
Agile is an Iterative and Incremental process.
Agile Methods break the product into small incremental builds.
These builds are provided in iterations.
At the end of the iteration, a working product is displayed to the customer and important stakeholders.
There will be good communication between Customer, Business Analyst, Developer and Tester.


Principles:
Accept the requirement changes.
Deliver working software frequently, from acouple of weeks to a couple of months, with a preference to the shorter timescale.
Our highest priority is to satisfy the customer through early and continuous delivery of valuable software.
Business people and developers must work together daily throughout the project.


Advantages:
Good communication between the team.
Releases are frequent(Weekly).
Customer no need to wait for long time.
Accept requirement changes in any stage of Software Development.


Disadvantages 
Less focus on documentation since we deliver software very fast(Less Documentation and More Meetings) 
Scrum 
Scrum is a Framework used to build a Software by following the agile principles. 

Scrum involving group of people called scrumping normally contains 5 to 9 people 

Product owner 
Master
Development team
QA Team 

Product owner 
Define features of the product
Prioritize features according to market value
adJust features and priority every iteration as needed 
Accept or reject results 

Scrum master 
The main role of scrum Master is to facilitating and driving the other process.
He manages the entire process of agile. 
Developers and QA 
Development test the software 


User story a feature or modulus software
Epic collection of user stories
Product backlog contains list of user stories prepared by product owner 

Sprint or iteration. Period of complete the user stories(Dev and Test) decided by product owner and team usually 2 to 4 weeks. 

Print planning meeting conducted with the team to define what can be delivered in the sprint how many stories to develop and what time duration 
Sprint backlog list of committed stories by development and Qatil for specific sprint 
Cram meeting meeting conducted by scrum Master everyday 15 minutes also called as scrum call or stand up meeting
What did you do yesterday what will you do today are there any impediments in your way 
Print retrospective meeting conducted after completion of sprints the entire team including scrum master and product owner should participate
Story point raf estimation of user stories will be given by development and q80 in the form of Fibonacci series newland one story one hour or one day 6 hours 
Chat shows how much work remaining in the sprint maintained by scrum Master daily 
Ajay process 
Scrum process 
Product owner takes the inputs from customers stakeholders users saxeto newly he will prepare a document call product backlog he will list out all the stories and rank them 
Print planning meeting will happen in this all stories will be reviewed some stories will be selected 
Sprint backlog in this dev and cuating will commit what stories will be develop and tested for the particular sprint 
Best friend by clock is ready then the sprint will start it will be want to for weeks 
During this print every 24 hours there will be daily scrum meeting conducted by scrum Master they will give updates what is the plan today what will they do today for 15 minutes 
According to the scrum master will prepare for burn down charts or up charts after sprint duration is completed we will have a piece of software with some functionality 
and print review is conducted in this cheque all test cases and all plant tasks are completed or not all bugs are closed or not
Also provide demo to the product owner next print retrospective meaning meeting is conducted 
A sprint retrospective is a meeting that is held after a sprint review and before the start of the next sprint. We will discuss what went well what went wrong improvement areas 



