Agile Process / Agile Methodology:
Agile Manifesto was published in 2001.
Agile is an Iterative and Incremental process.
Agile Methods break the product into small incremental builds.
These builds are provided in iterations.
At the end of the iteration, a working product is displayed to the customer and important stakeholders.
There will be good communication between Customer, Business Analyst, Developer and Tester.


Principles:
Accept the requirement changes.
Deliver working software frequently, from acouple of weeks to a couple of months, with a preference to the shorter timescale.
Our highest priority is to satisfy the customer through early and continuous delivery of valuable software.
Business people and developers must work together daily throughout the project.


Advantages:
Good communication between the team.
Releases are frequent(Weekly).
Customer no need to wait for long time.
Accept requirement changes in any stage of Software Development.


Disadvantages:
Less focus on documentation, since we deliver software very fast(Less Documentation and More Meetings).


Scrum:
Scrum is a Framework used to build a Software by following the agile principles.
Scrum involves a group of people called scrum team containing 5 to 9 people.

They are,
1) Product Owner 
2) Scrum Master
3) Development Team
4) QA Team 

1) Product Owner:
Defines the features of the product.
Prioritize features according to market value.
Adjust features and priority every iteration as needed.
Accept or reject results.

2) Scrum Master: 
The main role of scrum Master is to facilitating and driving the other process.
He manages the entire process of agile.

3) Development Team:
Development Team Designs and Develops the Software.

4) QA Team:
QA Team is responsible for Testing the Software.


Scrum Terminology:

1) User Story: A feature or module of a Software.

2) Epic: A collection of User Stories.

3) Product Backlog: It contains the list of User Stories prepared by the Product Owner. 

4) Sprint or Iteration: 
It is a period of time to complete the user stories(Develop and Test) decided by product owner and team usually 2 to 4 weeks. 

5) Sprint Planning Meeting:
Conducted with the team to define what can be delivered in the sprint and how many stories to develop in what time duration.
Multiple sprints will be planned.

6) Sprint Backlog: List of committed stories by Development and QA Teams for a specific sprint.

7) Scram Meeting: It is conducted by Scrum Master everyday for 15 minutes, also called as scrum call or stand up meeting.
They discuss,
What did you do yesterday?
What will you do today?
Are there any impediments in your way?

8) Sprint Retrospective Meeting:
It that is held after a sprint review and before the start of the next sprint.
Conducted after completion of each sprint, the entire team including scrum master and product owner should participate.

9) Story Point: Rough estimation of user stories that will be given by development and QA teams in the form of Fibonacci series.
Like, 1 Story Point -> 1 Hour / 1 Day (6 Hours)

10) BurnDown/Up Charts: Shows how much work is remaining or done in the sprint, maintained by Scrum Master daily.

Scrum Process:

PRODUCT OWNER takes the inputs from customers, stakeholders, users. He will prepare a document called PRODUCT BACKLOG.
He will list out all the stories in Product Backlog and rank them.

Next, SPRINT PLANNING MEETING will happen in this all user stories will be reviewed some stories will be selected for each sprint.

Next, A SPRINT BACKLOG is created in which Development and QA will commit what stories will be developed and tested for the particular sprint.
Once the Sprint Backlog is ready then the SPRINT will start, it will be 1 to 4 weeks.

During this sprint, every 24 hours there will be daily SCRUM MEETING conducted by scrum Master. 
They will give updates like what is the plan for today?, Are there any impediments in your way? for 15 minutes.

According to Scrum Meeting, scrum master will prepare a BURNDOWN/UP charts.
After sprint duration is completed we will have a piece of software with some functionality.

Then a SPRINT REVIEW is conducted in this we check all test cases and all planned tasks are completed or not, all bugs are closed or not.
Also provide demo to the product owner.

Before Next sprint a SPRINT RETROSPECTIVE MEETING is conducted. We will discuss what went well, what went wrong, Any improvement areas?.